---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "azutils_postgresql_entraid_user Resource - azutils"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Creates a PostgreSQL Role for EntraID user, group or service principal. Can create a global admin, but rest of the permissions should be managed using a different postgresql specific provider (using ephemeral token for password).
---

# azutils_postgresql_entraid_user (Resource)

Creates a PostgreSQL Role for EntraID user, group or service principal. Can create a global admin, but rest of the permissions should be managed using a different postgresql specific provider (using ephemeral token for password).

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "azutils_postgresql_entraid_user" "example" {
  server = {
    host           = "my-server.postgres.database.azure.com"
    port           = 5432
    admin_username = "my-admin-upn@mytenant.onmicrosoft.com"
    # Optional: if omitted, provider credentials are used to request
    # https://ossrdbms-aad.database.windows.net/.default token.
    # admin_password = var.postgresql_admin_password
  }

  user = {
    name        = "app-reader"
    object_id   = "11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555"
    object_type = "service"
    is_admin    = false
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `server` (Attributes) The PostgreSQL server connection details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--server))
- `user` (Attributes) Specifies the EntraID user to be created in PostgreSQL. Internally the resource is using [pgaadauth_create_principal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/security/security-manage-entra-users#create-a-user-or-role-with-a-microsoft-entra-principal-name) when object_id is not set, [pgaadauth_create_principal_with_oid](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/security/security-manage-entra-users#create-a-role-using-the-microsoft-entra-id-object-identifier) otherwise. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--user))

<a id="nestedatt--server"></a>
### Nested Schema for `server`

Required:

- `admin_username` (String) The username of admin user used for creating the new user. If using EntraID authentication, this should be the name of the currently authenticated user/service principal.
- `host` (String) The hostname or IP of the PostgreSQL server.

Optional:

- `admin_password` (String, Sensitive) Password of the admin user used for creating the new user. If not set, will attempt to use EntraID authentication.
- `port` (Number) The port of the PostgreSQL server. Defaults to 5432.


<a id="nestedatt--user"></a>
### Nested Schema for `user`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the user to be created. This is used for signing in. If not using `object_id`, needs to match user, group or service principal name in EntraID tenant.

Optional:

- `is_admin` (Boolean) Whether the user is an admin. Default is `false`. If you want to create an admin user, you should probably use `azurerm_postgresql_flexible_server_active_directory_administrator`, this does the same thing on database end intead of azure end.
- `object_id` (String) The EntraID Object ID of the user, group or service principal. If set, `name` can be different from the actual name in EntraID, for example you can use service principal client id to not have to store actual name of principal anywhere. If set, also requires `object_type` to be set.
- `object_type` (String) The EntraID Object Type of the user, group or service principal. Is required if `object_id` is set. Valid values are `user`, `group` and `service`.
